# Your Roof, Your Rules

Your computer doesn't belong to you any more, neither does your data. When you buy an iPhone, you don't really own it. Yes, you own the piece of hardware and you can smash it to smithereens if you want. But you can only use it the way Apple wants you to use it. Now it seems Apple at least respects your privacy and implements more and more measures to protect your data, and that's amicable. But still, if the US-government wants your data, they can ask Apple to hand it over and they will comply as long as the request is legit. Also, no one can really prove if what Apple tells you about their privacy protection efforts is actually true. We have to take them by their word. And what if Apple once will be run by another set of people. Tim Cook will not live forever (even though some Silicon Valley nutjob is certainly working on a way to upload all our beloved Billionaire's minds to some fancy cloud...)

Google has it the other way round. When you buy an Android phone, you can really do with it what you want. You can install apps outside the Play Store, you can root the device and install an alternate operating system, free of anything Google. But if you stick with the Google Eco-System (Google-Search, Google Mail, Google Maps etc.) the data you generate (and that's a lot) belongs to Google. In all fairness, it seems Google is relatively open with telling you what data they collect and seemingly gives you a lot of control over the data. But again, who knows what really happens with all the data.

Then there is Facebook (with Instagram, WhatsApp). I could try to sugar coat what needs to be said about them, but I wont. They are the Goldman Sachs of the Tech industry, at least in terms of outright self-servingness (yes, I know that's not really a word). The company has a long history (and by long I mean "tech-long", so just a one and a half decades in men-years) of exploiting their ~~sheep~~ sorry users, pretending to be "social", while actually creating agitation (Facebook), depression (Instagram), and pure frustration (WhatsApp groups) for anyone using it. Well, what would you expect from a company employing whole platoons of engineers trying to figure out how to get you even more addicted.

Amazon, well Amazon. Yes, this unbelievably convenient thing that empties out my wallet, keeps seven delivery people in a job for me alone and makes a bald guy so rich that he can literally burn money to fuel his yacht without even making a dent in his balance sheet. They also probably know more about you than the three afore mentioned companies combined. Not only do they know your shopping preferences, that's the least. They actually run two thirds of the global IT infrastructure from small start ups to global corporations. And me working as an IT guy, trust me, lot's of companies that run their stuff on Amazon (or one of the others) think about data protection not a lot